DOCS-8197 Salesforce Marketing 3.1 (#838)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: salesforce-marketing-cloud/3.1/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/salesforce-mktg-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector Release Notes] +
Exchange: https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-sfdc-marketing-cloud-connector/[Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector]

== Prerequisites

To use this information, you should be familiar with Salesforce Marketing, Mule runtime engine (Mule), Anypoint Connectors, Anypoint Studio, Mule concepts, elements in a Mule flow, and Global Elements.

You need login credentials to test your connection to your target resource.

For software requirements and compatibility
information, see the Connector Release Notes.

== POM File Information

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-sfdc-marketing-cloud-connector</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

> Mule converts RELEASE to the latest version. To specify a version, view

Reviewer: Let's update this to what we have in the template now and change RELEASE to x.x.x

. Configure these fields:
+
* *Create* operation:
** **Object Type** - Type of API object to create
** *Api Objects* - Array of one or more API objects
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-create.png[Create fields]
+
* *Delete* operation:
+
** *Object Type* - Type of API object to delete
** *Api Objects* - Array of one or more API objects
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-delete.png[Delete fields]
+
* *Update* operation:
+
** *Object Type* - Type of API object to update
** *Api Objects* - Array of one or more API objects
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-update.png[SMC-update]
+
* *Upsert* operation:
+
** *Object Type* - Type of API object to upsert
** *Api Objects* - Array of one or more API objects
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-upsert.png[SMC-upsert]
+
* *Configure* operation:
+
** *Configurations* - Array of one or more configurations to create
** *Action* - Create, Update, or Delete
** *Object Type* - Type of configuration
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-configure.png[DC-configure]
+
* *Perform* operation:
+
** *Definitions* - Array of one or more definitions for the Perform operation
** *Action* - Action to perform. Can have the value `Start`, `Stop`, or `Get`. `Max Count`

> ** *Object Type* - Type of object to do a perform on

Reviewer: Reword so we aren't saying "...to do a perform on"
Type of object on which to apply the Perform operation.  ? I

+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-perform.png[DC-perform]
+
* *Schedule Start* operation:
+
** *Object Type* - Type of object on which to have a schedule

> ** *Interactions* - Array of one or more interactions in the schedule operation

Reviewer: Elsewhere we cap the operation, so for consistency, Schedule operation

+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-schedule-start.png[DC-schedule-start]
+
* *Retrieve* operation:
+
** *Query* - Query describing the objects to retrieve
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-dc-retrieve.png[DC-retrieve]

> == Add the Connector to a Studio Project

Reviewer: Here, I would delete everything except the "Add the Connector in Studio" and then promote "Add the Connector in Studio" to a Level 2 heading.

Author: So this put the Configure the Connector in Studio lower under Add the Connector in Studio, which isn't right. I did a quick fix with the headers but this is definitely something we should put in the new template when we have time.

Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette view.

=== Add the Connector Using Exchange

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. Click the Exchange icon *(X)* in the upper-left of the Studio task bar.
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for "marketing".
. Select the connector and click *Add to project*.
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

> === Add the Connector in Studio

Reviewer: If you delete the Exchange content, promote this to H2

. In *Add Modules to Project*, type "marketing" in the search field.
. Click this connector's name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

=== Configure the Connector in Studio

. Drag the connector to the Studio Canvas.
. To create a global element for the connector, complete these fields:
* Basic Authentication (Username Password):
** *Username* - Username used to initialize the session
** *Password* - Password used to authenticate the
** *Service URL* - The URL of the service on Salesforce Marketing Cloud to be accessed from the connector.
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-user-pass-config.png[user-pass-config]
+
* OAuth Client Credentials authentication:
** *Service URL* - URL of the Salesforce Marketing Cloud service that the connector will access** *Client Id* - Client ID for the installed package
** *Client secret* - Client secret for the installed package
** *Token url* - URL of the endpoint that provides the access tokens
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-oauth-client-credentials-config.png[user-pass-config]

=== Use Case - Create an Object

. Create a new Mule project by selecting *File* > *New* > *Mule Project*.
. Supply a name for your project and click *Finish*.

> . Open the pom.xml file and add the following dependency for Mule Salesforce Marketing Connector. Mule translates the `RELEASE` dependency keyword to the current version.

Reviewer: Change RELEASE to x.x.x

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.mule.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>mule-module-sfdc-marketing-cloud-connector</artifactId>
    <version>RELEASE</version>
    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----
+

> . Navigate through the project's structure, double-click `src/main/app/smc-usecase-create-object.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate through the project's structure and double-click `src/main/app/smc-usecase-create-object.xml`.
```

> . Search for the *HTTP* component in the palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Search for the *HTTP* component in the Mule Palette view.
```

. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the canvas.
. Search for *Transform Message* and drag the component after the *Listener*.
. Search for *Salesforce Marketing Cloud* and drag the *Create entities* operation after *Transform Message*.
. Add a *Transform Message* component after *Create*.
. Double-click on the *Listener* component.
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-http-listener-config.png[HTTP Listener component]
+
. Click image:salesforce-mktg-as-plus-button.png[plus Button] next to the *Connector configuration* field.
. Specify the *Host* as localhost and *Port* as `8081`, then click *OK*.
. Specify the *Path* as `/create`.
. Double-click *Create*.
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-smc-create-config.png[SMC Create config]
+

> . Click the image:salesforce-mktg-as-plus-button.png[plus Button] next to Connector configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the image:salesforce-mktg-as-plus-button.png[plus Button] next to **Connector configuration**.
```

Author: Not taking this suggestion.

+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-user-pass-config.png[SMC user-pass config]
+
. Specify the required fields with the credentials for your organization and click *OK*.

> . From the *Object type* drop down select `List`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Object type* drop-down select `List`.
```

. Double-click *Transform Message* (to the left of *Create* in the flow) and configure as shown below:
+
image::salesforce-mktg-3-transform-before-config.png[Transform message before]
+

> . Double-click *Transform Message* (to the right of *Create* in the flow) and configure shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Double-click *Transform Message* (to the right of *Create* in the flow) and configure as shown below:
```

		<http:listener-connection host="localhost" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<sfdc-marketing-cloud:config
    name="Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Config"
    doc:name="Salesforce Marketing Cloud Config" >
		<sfdc-marketing-cloud:basic-connection
      username="${config.username}"
      password="${config.password}"
      serviceUrl="${config.endpoint}" />
	</sfdc-marketing-cloud:config>
	<flow name="smc-usecase-create-objectFlow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener"
      config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config"
      path="/create"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
[{
	ListName: payload.listName
}]]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<sfdc-marketing-cloud:create
      doc:name="Create"
      config-ref="Salesforce_Marketing_Cloud_Config"
      objectType="List"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== Known Issues and Limitations

> The Salesforce Marketing Cloud connector has some limitations when working with subclasses inside complex fields, trying to retrieve fields from a hierarchy, or attempting to return an Automation object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector has some limitations, including: 

- Working with subclasses inside complex fields
- Trying to retrieve fields from a hierarchy
- Attempting to return an Automation object

```

When executing the request with the `WHERE 1=1` clause, the filter expects a property. It is transformed into the following request:

`<Filter xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:type="SimpleFilterPart"> <Property>1</Property> <SimpleOperator>equals</SimpleOperator> <Value>1</Value> </Filter>`.

The response is:

 `<OverallStatus>Error: The Filter Property '1' is not a retrievable property.</OverallStatus>`.

=== Server Results Containing an Automation Object

Server results that contain an Automation object cause an exception to be thrown. When performing an operation, such as Create or Delete, on an Automation object, the returned result contains the structure of the Automation object you acted upon. The server also returns an additional field in the Automation object called isPlatformObject that is not recognized by the WSDL.

To bypass this issue, make all operations that directly use an Automation object asynchronous. If an operation is asynchronous, the immediate response of the operation is `Operation Queued`.

For more information, see the xref:index.adoc#asynchronous-operations[Asynchronous Operations].

== Common Use Cases

> Use the Salesforce Marketing Cloud connector operations for the following common use cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector operations for the following common use cases:
```

* `Create entities` operation - Creates new objects on the Marketing Cloud API web server.
* `Delete objects` operation - Deletes existing objects on the Marketing Cloud API web server.
* `Perform operation` - Calls the Perform method with the GetMaxCount, Start, or Stop as the value of the Action parameter when connected to the Marketing Cloud API SOAP web service.
* `Retrieve entities` operation - Retrieves objects from the Marketing Cloud API web server in a SQL query-like fashion.
* `Schedule start` operation - Calls the Schedule method with Start as the value of the Action parameter when connected to the Marketing Cloud API SOAP web service.
* `Update entities` operation - Updates existing objects on the Marketing Cloud API web server.
* `Upsert entities` operation - Creates objects on the Marketing Cloud API web server if the objects do not already exist, or deletes existing objects on the server.

=== Add a Proxy

To use a proxy server, set the following configuration properties on the *Advanced* tab of your configuration:

image::salesforce-mktg-3-proxy.png[Schedule Start Automation]

[[providing-subclass]]
=== Providing a Subclass as a Type to a Complex Field

> Suppose you want to schedule an existing Automation that send emails to a subscriber list once per minute. To do this, add a Schedule Reference to the connector through a flow variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you want to schedule an existing Automation that sends emails to a subscriber list once per minute. To do this, add a Schedule Reference to the connector through a flow variable:
```

image::salesforce-mktg-3-schedule-start-automation.png[Schedule Start Automation]

> Use the Recurrence field in ScheduleDefinition to provide information such as how much time should pass between emails sent. The Recurrence field is a complex field that has no structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Recurrence** field in **ScheduleDefinition** to provide information such as how much time to pass between sending emails. The **Recurrence** field is a complex field that has no structure.
```

To specify that you want an operation to behave asynchronously, use the Options parameter for the operation.

The following example creates a list of Automation objects to provide in the payload. Because the result of any operation that works directly with Automation objects throws an exception caused by the presence of an unknown field, the example uses the CreateOptions parameter to make the call asynchronous. In this example, the CreateOptions value is provided in a variable called `vars`.

image::salesforce-mktg-3-create-automation-config.png[Create Automation]

This mapping for CreateOptions in vars looks like this:

* The requestType field determines the type of call (SYNCHRONOUS or ASYNCHRONOUS).
* The conversationID field assigns a unique identifier to the asynchronous call.

You can group asynchronous calls together using the conversationID, callsInConversation, and sequenceCode fields. For example, suppose you want to make five asynchronous calls to the server, execute the calls together, and specify their execution order. To do this:

> * Assign the same conversationID to each call.

Reviewer: Are these steps or options? It's not clear to me. If they are just diff ways of doing it, then it's fine as an unordered list--otherwise, make it steps.
